-----------SOLID------------------
Single Responsiblity principle
Open closed
Liskov substitution
Interface segregation
Dependency inversion principle

ref - https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/solid-principles-for-programming-and-software-design/

1. Single responsiblity principle - Class should only have one reason to change and one job to do. If a class' job is to validate user input, it should validate user input only. If we have to display information after validating, then it must be handled in another class.

2. Open closed principle - this states that software entities (class, function , modules) should be open for extension but not for modification. 
	Open for extension - can extend the modules we want to. 
	Closed for modification - cannot change source code even though we can extend the behavior. 
	
	Example - should make another class which might allow extension/addition of data which we are handling in a class. 
	
	
3. Liskov Substitution - This states that objects of super class must be substitutable with objects of a subclass. 
	
	Example - If two classes Rectangle and Square are there... and we can replace square object with rectangle class object, it will work as every square can be rectangle but vice versa cannot be hold true. as rectangle has 2 different properties and square has a single side property.. 
		so a shape class can be made and then rectangle and square can extend it and then have define their own functions. 
		
4. Interface segregation principle - client should never be forced to implement an interface that user might never use or never be forced to depend on a method that a user might never use.  
	Also states that seperate interfaces should be built if we are forced to implement a method of that interface which we might not require or never use. 
	
	Example - If we have an interface calculateShapeInterface {} having two calculateVolume() and calculateArea(). Now if Rectange/Square class implements this calculateShapeInterface interface, it will have to implement calculateArea as well as calculateVolume() method. But it only requires calculateArea().. method. so this will fail Inferface seggregation principle. 
	
	To Solve and implement this principle in this scenario,
		WE WILL SEPERATE BOTH INTERFACES - ONE WHICH WE WILL HAVE calculateArea and other will have calculateVolume.
		
5. Dependency Injection - 
	loose coupling should be there such that high level modules are reusable and unaffected by changes in low level modules.
	Classes should depend upon interfaces and abstract class instead of concrete classes and functions. 
	
	If a new requirement comes, we don't need to edit our parent class/interface. We should extend the parent class to make changes. 
	
	DI - programming technique in which object/function receives other object/functions that it requires instead of creating them. an object supplies the dependency of another object 
	
	Example - Class A is using some methods of class B by creating its object. So tranferring this process of creating object to some other class and then directly using this dependency is called dependency injection. 
	
	
		3 types of DI -
		
		1. constructor injection - dependencies are passed through a class constructor
		2. setter injection - client exposes a setter method that injector uses to inject dependency.
		3. interface injection - 
		