--basically open source container orchestration tool/framework developed by google. can manage 1000 of containers automatically can be docker or some other tech in different development environments on-premise, physical machines, vm or cloud environments or even hybrid.
--it is used to orchestrate multiple containers that talk to each other, used to manage containers which might have issues service issue automatically and fix it. 

--microservices can be contained and managed by kubernetes. 
-- High availability, scalability and high performance, disaster recovery.

--basic Architecture -
HAS A CLUSTER
one master node connects with couple of worker nodes. each node having a kubelet process (primary node agent) running on it.

KUBELET - KUBELET IS KUBERNETES PROCESS THAT MAKES IT POSSIBLE FOR CLUSTER TO TALK TO EACH OTHER AND EXECUTE TASK ON NODES. LIKE RUNNING APP PROCESSES. 
EACH WORKER HAS DOCKER CONTAINER OF DIFFERENT APPS DEPLOYED ON IT DEPENDING UPON HOW WORKLOAD IS DISTRIBUTED. 
ON WORKER NODES, OUR APP WILL RUN. 

MASTER NODE - important k8(kubernetes) processes run which are necessary for managing a cluster.

one imp service is - 

1. api server - also a container and an entry point to k8s cluster. all UIs, apis, CLI will talk to the api server. 
2. controller manager - keeps of track of what's happening in cluster. whether something should be repaired or a container died. 
3. scheduler - scheduling containers on different nodes based on workload n available server resource on each node. next nodes to be scheduled. ensures pod placement
4. etcd key value storage - holds current state of kubernetes cluster. configuration data.all status data of each worker node. 
backups and restoring are made from etcd snapshots
5. virtual network - enables worker nodes and communication between worker and master. it turns all worker nodes into one powerful machine. 

master node is very important for doing important operations. must have 2-3 masters in production

--COMPONENTS OF KUBERNETES - there are tons of components. 

node/worker node - actual docker containers run. 
1 --POD -  smallest component/unit of k8s is a pod. it is an abstraction of a container. it's a abstract layer above container. 
as we don't have to deal with docker/any other container tech, we interact with kubernetes layer... so we have an application pod. 
----usually we run 1 app per pod. can even run multiple apps per pod. 

-- K8S provides each pods has its own IP address. its own virtual network just like a docker container. 2 pods can communicate by using ip address

pods can die very easily. can die due to resource load, app crash. a new pod will be created in its place and then it'll get new ip address.
So instead of manually configuring those IPs, another component - SERVICE IS USED.

2 SERVICE - static/permanent IP address attached to each pod. app will have its own service and database will have own service. lifecycle of app & db not connected.

3. INGRESS - 
--- APP SHOULD BE accessible through browser. can create external service that opens communication from external src and also internal service.. can specify while creating ONE. 
--- for doing all this, url to be safe secured protocol, ingress is used. 

-- ingress - api object that manages external access to the services in a cluster typically http, https. exposes http/https routes from outside the cluster to services within the cluster. it is load-balanced & traffic routing is controlled by the rules defined on ingress resource. 

-- In order for the ingress resource to work, ingress controller must be running.  now there are lot of third party/additional 
REQUEST GOES FROM INGRESS GATEWAY (OF CONTROLLER) - THEN THE ACTUAL SERVICE TO DB SERVICE 
4. Ingress controller - that provide functionality required by kubernetes.  
FOR EXAMPLE - ISTIO INGRESS CONTROLLER  


5. -- CONFIG MAP & SECRETS -
    ConfigMap : DATABASE URL/ENDPOINTS ARE STORED IN CONFIG MAP COMPONENTS OF K8S. external configurations.so we dont have to rebuild the image. 
	
    Secret - component to store secret data. stores in base64 format. certificates. 
	we
kubectl - k8s client to create objects.

Namespaces = provides a scope for kubernetes resources. can have a set of kubernetes deployments resources under one namespace
 which can be equivalent to a project. basically a namespace(project) under which multiple microservices will be deployed. 
 

kubernetes = container orchestration tool

master and worker. each node having kubelet process makes it possible to cluster to communicate with each other. each worker node has docker containers 
running on them.

master node -

Processes in  master node

api server -  entrypoint to k8s cluster. UIs, APIs
controller manager - to keep track of happenings in cluster
Scheduler - scheduling containers based on workload
etcd - key value - holds current state of the node. backup and restore is made from etcd snapshots 
virtual network - creates one unified machine - sum of all the individual resource. 

there must be backup of kubernets master nodes, as  there are many important components

components of kubternetes - 
POD - smallest unit. abstraction layer over on top of container. pod is meant to run one container/one application. 
	EACH POD HAS A UNIQUE IP ADDRESS. pod components when restarted 0r died and a fresh pod is backed up,then they have a different unique ip address. 
	
SERVICE - TAKES CARE OF STATIC/PERMANENT IP ADDRESS THAT CAN BE ATTACHED TO each pod so that we don't have to handle ip addresses 
changing everytime a new pod starts.  

INGRESS - route traffic into the cluster. EXTERNAL SERVICE WHICH HAS ACCESS TO THE INTERNAL SERVICE THROUGH BROWSER. INSTEAD OF SERVICE, 
REQUEST GOES TO INGRESS FIRST AND THEN TO THE SERVICE
ingress controller - kind of UI/dashboard to access services through GUI to check health, status of the service. 
external ingress controller includes istio, eks. 

pods communicate with each other via services. 
 
 mongodb service - db url usually usually in built application image then push it to repo and pull from repo to pod. 
 this becomes tedious so we use ConfigMap - external configuration of the application 
 for putting USERNAME, PASSWORD  - WE USE SECRET - stored in base64. to store certis, 
we can use all of this as environment variable inside our code.

DATA STORAGE - if pod gets restarted, data will be gone. so we use VOLUME componnent of kubernetes.
VOLUMES -- it attaches physical storage or hdd either on local machine where pod is running or remote, outside k8s cluster.. cloud storage
K8s doesn't manage data persistence. 

stateful Deployment -  to reduce the downtime of pod restarting, we replicate everything. another container would be running on another node 
which will be connected to the same service. Service has 2 functionalities - permanent IP and load balancer - balance between pod to handle workload

TO CREATE REPLICA - we won't create another pod. we will define blueprint and specify how many replicas to create of that pod
this blueprint is called as DEPLOYMENT (component of kubernetes)  
we will be creating deployments, not pod where we can scale up pod replicas. DEPLOYMENT is another abstraction layer over pods and 
pods are layer above container. 

STATEFULL SET
we can't replicate db using deployment as db has state as there can be data inconsistency. if we have clones of db, they would have to access same shared db. 
will need mechanism to manage which pods are reading/ writing to that db. this mechanism of replicating is STATEFULL SET. 
for stateful apps or databases for mongoDB, other DBs. statefull set would take care of replicating pods amd scaling them up and making sure that all db reads 
and writes are synchronized.  

Deploying statefulSet isn't easy --- so good practice to host DBs outside of K8s cluster and just have stateless deployments in k8s cluster. 

MINIKUBE & kubectl - minikube to setup a cluster 
on local machine - can do minikube. one virtual node cluster. master and worker process work on one node. 
create vbox on laptop. node runs on vbox and 1 node k8s cluster is there. 

kubectl - command line tool to create pods n other components. Api server - entrypoint to k8s cluster through which kubectl talks.

worker processes - enable pods to run on node, create services. 
minikube start --vm-driver=hyperkit  - to start minikube
kubectl get nodes - to get nodes , minikube status,   

CREATE DEPLOYMENT -- 
kubectl get pod - to get pods , kubectl get services - to get services 
kubectl create - to create kubernetes commands

kubectl create deployment NAME --image=image  --- example -- kubectl create deployment nginx-depl --image=nginx // will fetch image nginx from dockerhub

kubectl logs podname - to get pod 
kubectl get replicaset
kubectl describe pod podname - get description from pod
kubectl exec -it podname -- bin/bash    : into terminal of the container. 
kubectl get hpa -n ns-acct-opn-api

kubectl apply -f filename.yaml -- to work with kubernetes configuration file -- to specify every option to confgure kubernetes pod. 

if a deployment is already exising, it'll update it. 
IN DEPLOYMENT.YAML, WE specify specs for deployment first and then specs for containers. container port number in it. 

----LIFECYLE OF POD 
starts from pending phase, moving through running phase and then either succeeded or Failed phase depending upon whether any container in pod terminated
in failure. 
Within a pod, kubelet is able to restart containers to handle faults. kubernetes tracks different containers & its states and determines what actions to take 
to make pod healthy.
Pods are only scheduled once in their lifetime. Pods are created and assigned a uuid & scheduled to node. If a node dies, pod scheduled to that node is scheduled
for deletion. 
Kubernetes uses high-level abstraction called "Controller", that handles work of managing disposable pod instances. 
Pod with volume is also destroyed. 

021-12-23T18:24:41.337929Z	warning	envoy config	StreamAggregatedResources gRPC config stream closed: 14, transport is closing
2021-12-23T18:24:41.501881Z	info	xdsproxy	connected to upstream XDS server: istiod.istio-system.svc:15012
 
Internal Service for mongodb - no external request are allowed to the pod. only component inside the same cluster can talk to it. 
example
a pod for Mongo express - 
we will need DB url for mongodb, user, password to connect to mongodb in deployment.yaml through config map. 

So we will create configmap to configure MongoDB URL and Secret for user/password and create reference for both of this in deployment.yaml file.

to access mongo express through browser, will have to create external service. then will allow external srvice to talk to pod. 
URL - IP addr of node and port of external service. 

Request goes from browser to external mongo express service  to mongodb express pod to internal service of mongodb to actual mongodb via secret/configmap


ERROR -
upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers. reset reason: connection failure



10.100.114.26 iibuat.rblbank.com
10.100.114.218 iibuat.ratnakarbank.in  
 
10.100.114.39 ibesbuat.rblbank.com
10.100.114.218 ibesbuat.ratnakarbank.in

10.100.114.28 apiesbuat.rblbank.com
10.100.114.218 apiesbuat.ratnakarbank.in 
 
10.80.45.72 mbesbuat.rblbank.com
10.100.114.218 mbesbuat.ratnakarbank.in

10.80.74.5 rac-scan.rblbank.com
10.80.74.6 rac-scan.rblbank.com
10.80.74.7 rac-scan.rblbank.com


{
    "OpenAccountResponse": {
        "Header": {
            "TranID": "",
            "Status": "Failure",
            "ErrorCode": "ERRAO0255",
            "StatusDesc": "Other FI Error"
        },
        "Body": {
            "CIF_ID": "103429302"
        }
    }
}


103429306





