POLKADOT BLOCKCHAIN

can operate blockchain on top of which other blockchains can be operated. 
Polkadots are designed to operate two types of blockchains - 

1.relaychains - a permanent blockchain where transactions are going to be permanent.
2. Parachains - user created blockchain network.Parachains can be customized for any number of users and fed into relaychain. So parachain can have the same security as that of relaychain.

First stage - DApps or parachains 
Second stage - validators will validate blocks that parachains are providing and will put on the relay chain (main chain) to finalize. 
Relay chain - main polkadot blockchain where transactions are finalized.

TO ACHIEVE SPEED - RELAY CHAIN SEPERATES THE ADDING OF NEW TRANSACTIONS (FROM PARACHAIN) from the act of VALIDATING TRANSACTIONS ( DONE BY VALIDATORS)

PARACHAINS - CUSTOM BLOCKCHAIN CREATED BY US. we will use relay chains computation resource to compute those and put them in an accurate manner onto relaychain.
Bridges - way to interact with outer world/other blockchain 

To keep its network in agreement about the state of the blockchain, polkadot relaychain uses nominated proof of stake consensus algorithm.

This system allows anyone who stakes dot by locking cryptocurrency in a special contract to PERFORM VARIOUS OPERATIONS.

On-Chain roles -
Validators - validates data on parachains. also participate in consensus voting.
Nominators - part of nominated POS. secure the relay chain by selecting trustworthy validators.
Collators - nodes that store full history for each parachain and aggregate parachain transactions into a block for adding into main chain
Fishermen - security police of the complex. reports if there is any malicious validator so they will inform other validators.

ANyone who purchases dot tokens can use theirs dots to propose changes to the council. Elected by dot holders. 
Technical committe - actively building polkadot. voted by polkadot holders.

can do more parallel transactions than ethereum as there is seperation of tasks.

polkadot is developed in RUST.  System-level programming

Substrate is framework for building blockchain. used to make code modular. Polkadot will give the codebase to create own blockchain. 

